NOTES ΟΝ ΤΗΕ LIPE AND WRlTINGS
OF TAOITUS.

Ln'rnn 01· nothing is known of the life of Tacitus ’
except what he tells us himself, or what we ruay
gether from the Epistles of his friend, the younger
Pliny. His prccnmncc'is a matter of doubt. Itis
commonly written Caius (on the authority of Sidonius
Apollinaris), but it ia given as Publius in the best
Me. of the Acade. The name duneline suggestsa
possible connection with the great patrician Gens
which was thus designated But there was aleca
plebeian house of the same name, and it must be
remembsrcd that in the time of the Empire the
acauno gentilia had become widely diffused With
regard to his parentcge we have at least a probable
conjecture to guido us The elder Pliny was, he tells
us (Not. Hiet. vra 17), acquainted with one Oornelius
Tacitus, who was then a Procurator in Belgio Gaul,
and who had a son It has been supposed that this
Tacitus was the historian's father. The similarity oi
name, the coincidence of dates, and the probability
that at some time of his life our author was familiar
with the neighbourhood of North-Eastem Garri, in·
cline ns to accept the conjecture, which is further
supported by the fact that the circumstances of his
career seem to imply an origin which was respectable
rather than dignified. A Procurator was generally
a person oi Equestrian ranis About the date of his
birth nothing can be certainly affirmcd. Itis indeed
approximately fixed by several expressions used by
the younger Pliny. That writer says (Epist. vn. 20)
that Tacitus and himself were “nearly equalin age

b .

 

