xx lNTRODUGTION

sede-rete Caledonian tribes hy which the subjugation
oi Britain to its furthest limite was finally schievcd
Tire description ef the preparatione for the battle and
ef the battle itsell' would eecupy u spnce altogether

oet es proportion to the rest ef tho work were it net
meent by the author to elsim the first pisce in the

intexentes his readers. Both thoseenoend the event l
appear to heve deeply impressed the mind of Tacitus · ,

The critical struggle, ss it seemed te him, wss fought
outon the last confines es the world, end it added to
the glery cf Reme the renewn of u triumph which
complctsd the conquest el her most inaccessible sed
iutrnctnble province. 'I'he speeches oi the rivsl
genesis which introduce it, ure elaborate specimens
of Taciteen eloquence. 'l'hst of the Caledonism chief

isconoeived in the true spirit of the bmbnrinu snd is 2
marked by u fieres impetuosity3 thet of Agricola is '

⁰ culm end dignilied, end implies the consciousuess of
superior strength, which is the fruit es discipline and
civilisstien.

Seen ester his decisivo success, which excited the
jeelousy snd ill-will ef Domitiae, Agricola returned to
Rome Of the lest eight yeers ef his life, which were
passed iu retirement Tacitus tells us but little In a
few buming words hs dwclls en the herrors of the
clesiug period of Domitiun’s reign end hiem, though hs
forbesrs explicitly te essert, ss Dion Cassius does, that
Agricola was one of the Emperor’s numerous victims

'l'he text of the Agricola presente many difficulties ’
Iu three er four passages it is probably hopelessly

 

